## Interview Questions 4

- How to get 3 Max salaries ?

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT sal FROM emp a WHERE 3 >= (SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT sal) FROM emp b WHERE a.sal <= b.sal) ORDER BY a.sal DESC;
```

- How to get 3 Min salaries ?

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT sal FROM emp a WHERE 3 >= (SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT sal) FROM emp b WHERE a.sal >= b.sal);
```

- How to get nth max salaries ?

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT hiredate FROM emp a WHERE &n = (SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT sal) FROM emp b WHERE a.sal >= b.sal);
```

- Select DISTINCT RECORDS from emp table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM emp a WHERE ROWID = (SELECT MAX(ROWID) FROM emp b WHERE a.empno=b.empno);
```

- How to delete duplicate rows in a table?

```sql
DELETE FROM emp a WHERE ROWID != (SELECT MAX(ROWID) FROM emp b WHERE a.empno=b.empno);
```

- Count of number of employees in department wise.

```sql
SELECT COUNT(empno), b.deptno, dname FROM emp a, dept b WHERE a.deptno(+)=b.deptno GROUP BY b.deptno,dname;
```

- Count the total salary deptno wise where more than 2 employees exist.

```sql
SELECT deptno, sum(sal) As totalsal FROM emp
GROUP BY deptno
HAVING COUNT(empno) > 2;
```

- Difference between varchar and varchar2 data types?

  - VARCHAR is used to support distinction between NULL and empty string, as ANSI standard prescribes. VARCHAR occupies space for the NULL values.VARCHAR2 does not distinguish between a NULL and empty string. VARCHAR2 will not occupy space for the NULL values. VARCHAR2 is an oracle standard.

- In which language Oracle has been developed?

  - Oracle has been developed using C Language.

- What is RAW datatype?

  - RAW datatype is used to store values in binary data format. The maximum size for a raw in a table in 32767 bytes.

- What is USING Clause and give example?

  - The USING clause is used to specify with the column to test for equality when two tables are joined.

- What is WITH CHECK OPTION?
  - WITH CHECK OPTION is used for a view to prevent the invisible rows from being updated.

```sql
CREATE VIEW cars AS
    SELECT car_id, car_name, brand_id
    FROM cars
    WHERE brand_id = 3 WITH CHECK OPTION
```

- What is a sub query and what are the different types of subqueries?

  - Sub Query is also called as Nested Query or Inner Query which is used to get data from multiple tables. A sub query is added in the where clause of the main query.
  - There are two different types of subqueries:
  - Correlated sub query
    - A Correlated sub query cannot be as independent query but can reference column in a table listed in the from list of the outer query.
  - Non-Correlated subquery
    - This can be evaluated as if it were an independent query. Results of the sub query are submitted to the main query or parent query.

- Select FIRST n records from a table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM emp WHERE ROWNUM <= &n;
```

- What is key preserved table?

  - A table is set to be key preserved table if every key of the table can also be the key of the result of the join. It guarantees to return only one copy of each row from the base table. A table may be key preserved in one join view and may not be key preserved in another view.
    Ex:

```sql
SELECT e.*,d.* FROM emp,dept WHERE emp.dno = dept.dno;
--In this join, empno is the key in its own table and
--also in the result of this join. So key is preserved.
--In this, empno is unique but dno is not unique. So emp
--table is key preserved but dept is not.
```

- How can we delete duplicate rows in a table?

  - Duplicate rows in the table can be deleted by using ROWID.

- What is the fastest query method to fetch data from the table?

  - Row can be fetched from table by using ROWID. Using ROW ID is the fastest query method to fetch data from the table.

- What is the maximum number of triggers that can be applied to a single table?

  - 12 is the maximum number of triggers that can be applied to a single table until Oracle 9i

- How can we view last record added to a table?

```sql
SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM employees ORDER BY ROWNUM DESC) WHERE ROWNUM<2;
```

- What is the data type of DUAL table?

  - The DUAL table is a one-column table present in oracle database. The table has a single VARCHAR2(1) column called DUMMY which has a value of ‘X’.

- What is a Literal?

  - A Literal is a string that can contain a character, a number, or a date that is included in the SELECT list and that is not a column name or a column alias. Date and character literals must be enclosed within single quotation marks (‘ ‘), number literals need not.

- What is a DATA DICTIONARY?

  - DICTIONARY: Is a collection of tables created and maintained by the Oracle Server. It contains database information.

- What is a SET UNUSED option?

  - SET UNUSED option marks one or more columns as unused so that they can be dropped when the demand on system resources is lower. Unused columns are treated as if they were dropped, even though their column data remains in the table’s rows. After a column has been marked as unused, you have no access to that column. A select \* query will not retrieve data from unused columns. In addition, the names and types of columns marked unused will not be displayed during a DESCRIBE, and you can add to the table a new column with the same name as an unused column. The SET UNUSED information is stored in the USER_UNUSED_COL_TABS dictionary view.
